# AWS S3

This specification describes how an OCM repository view is mapped to an S3 blob store.

## Specification Format

To describe a repository context for an OCM repository conforming to this specification the following repository specification format MUST be used.

### Synopsis

```
type: S3/v1
```

### Description

Artifact namespaces/repositories of the API layer will be mapped to an  S3 bucket.

### Specification Versions

Supported specification version is `v1`.

#### Version `v1`

The type specific specification fields are:

- **`bucketURL`** *string*

  S3 bucket reference

## Element Mapping

An *OCM repository* is mapped to an *S3 bucket*.

The component id is mapped to an object path below this bucket, followed by a namespace component `__versions__`.

The OCM *component version* is stored below an additional folder with the version name of the component version.

All artifacts belonging to a component version are stored as blobs below this folder.

The OCM *component descriptor* of a component version is stored with the name `component-descriptor.yaml` in [YAML](https://yaml.org/spec/) format.

Local blobs are stored as additional blobs in the same folder. The blob identity is the name of the blob object in this folder.

The name should be derived from the digest of the blob.

For example:

```
└── bucket
    ├── <componentid>
    │   └── __versions__
    │       └── <version>
    │           ├── component-descriptor.yaml
    │           ├── <sha256-1>
    │           └── <sha256-2>
    └── github.com
        └── gardener
            └── external-dns-management
                └── __versions__
                    └── 1.0.0
                        ├── component-descriptor.yaml
                        └── sha256.1d4382e73dc767efc4f3cf43cb970d09104ea26301fc1495244c11e2ad45639e

```

## Blob Mapping

Because the base repository is a pure blob store, no dedicated blob mappings are required.
